docs/hosting.md, before:

# Hosting Raphael

This guide describes a simple Docker setup for running Raphael on a server with a minimal runtime image, reduced container privileges, and basic operational notes.

## Goals

- Minimal runtime image (no shell, no package manager)
- Runs as non-root
- Read-only root filesystem
- No Linux capabilities, no privilege escalation
- Writable data isolated to a single volume mount (`/data`)
- Clear guidance for auth, OAuth callbacks, and reverse proxying

## Build and Run (Docker Compose)

Raphael ships with a `Dockerfile` and `docker-compose.yml` that aim to be safe defaults.

```bash
docker compose up -d --build
docker compose logs -f raphael
```

Data persists in a named volume mounted at `/data` inside the container.

If you are upgrading from an older Raphael version that wrote the DB under `/app/data`, the volume may be root-owned. The included `raphael-init` service fixes volume permissions at startup so the main container can stay non-root.

## Required Environment

At minimum:
- `PORT` (default: `6274`)
- `RAPHAEL_DB_PATH` (default in container: `/data/raphael.db`)

### Auth (Recommended For Any Public Deployment)

Enable auth:
- `RAPHAEL_AUTH_ENABLED=true`

For public deployments, set:
- `BETTER_AUTH_SECRET` (32+ chars)
- `BETTER_AUTH_BASE_URL` (the externally reachable base URL, e.g. `https://raphael.example.com`)
- `RAPHAEL_AUTH_TRUSTED_ORIGINS` (comma-separated origins allowed to initiate auth, typically the same as the base URL)

If you enable email/password login:
- `RAPHAEL_AUTH_EMAIL_PASSWORD_ENABLED=true`
- `RAPHAEL_ADMIN_EMAIL` and `RAPHAEL_ADMIN_PASSWORD` for seeding/updating the admin password

If you are using OAuth providers, configure the provider env vars and ensure their callback URLs match `BETTER_AUTH_BASE_URL`.

### OAuth Allowlist (Optional, OAuth-Only Mode)

If auth is enabled and email/password is disabled (`oauth_only` mode), admins can configure:
- allowed email domains and/or explicit emails
- default drop permissions for newly created OAuth member users

This is managed in the UI under `Settings -> Auth` or via:
- `GET /api/admin/auth-policy`
- `PUT /api/admin/auth-policy`

## Reverse Proxy (TLS)

Raphael can be run behind a reverse proxy for TLS termination and basic request hygiene.

Recommended proxy hardening:
- TLS (Let’s Encrypt)
- reasonable request body limits (OTLP payloads can be large)
- rate limiting (if exposed to the internet)

If you already have an ingress/proxy, point it at `raphael:6274`.

## Container Hardening Details

The default `docker-compose.yml` applies:
- `read_only: true` (root filesystem is read-only)
- `tmpfs` for `/tmp` with `noexec,nosuid`
- `cap_drop: [ALL]`
- `security_opt: no-new-privileges:true`
- `init: true` (reaps zombies)
- `pids_limit`

The runtime image is distroless (Debian), which removes:
- interactive shell
- package managers
- common utilities used for post-exploitation

### Persistent Storage

Only `/data` is writable. The DB lives at:
- `RAPHAEL_DB_PATH=/data/raphael.db`

If you change `RAPHAEL_DB_PATH`, keep it under `/data` unless you also update the compose volume mounts.

## Operational Checklist

1. Keep the base image fresh.
- Rebuild regularly to pull security updates (`docker compose build --pull`).

2. Keep dependencies fresh.
- Prefer automated dependency PRs (Dependabot/Renovate).

3. Monitor auth configuration.
- Ensure `BETTER_AUTH_BASE_URL` is correct.
- Keep `RAPHAEL_AUTH_TRUSTED_ORIGINS` tight.

4. Reduce exposure.
- Put Raphael behind a proxy.
- Consider IP allowlisting for internal-only deployments.

5. Strong isolation (Optional).
- Run under gVisor/Kata if your platform supports it for tighter syscall isolation.

Commit message:

ci: publish Docker image to GHCR
- Add GitHub Actions workflow to build and push multi-arch images to ghcr.io on main and version tags
- Document GHCR image usage in Hosting Raphael guide

docs/hosting.md, after:

# Hosting Raphael

This guide describes a simple Docker setup for running Raphael on a server with a minimal runtime image, reduced container privileges, and basic operational notes.

## Goals

- Minimal runtime image (no shell, no package manager)
- Runs as non-root
- Read-only root filesystem
- No Linux capabilities, no privilege escalation
- Writable data isolated to a single volume mount (`/data`)
- Clear guidance for auth, OAuth callbacks, and reverse proxying

## Build and Run (Docker Compose)

Raphael ships with a `Dockerfile` and `docker-compose.yml` that aim to be safe defaults.

```bash
docker compose up -d --build
docker compose logs -f raphael
```

Data persists in a named volume mounted at `/data` inside the container.

If you are upgrading from an older Raphael version that wrote the DB under `/app/data`, the volume may be root-owned. The included `raphael-init` service fixes volume permissions at startup so the main container can stay non-root.

## Container Image (GHCR)

If you are using the public GitHub repo, CI publishes a multi-arch image to GHCR:
- `ghcr.io/<owner>/<repo>:latest` (default branch)
- `ghcr.io/<owner>/<repo>:<sha>` and branch/tag variants

If the package ends up private by default, set it to public in GitHub Packages settings for the repo/package.

## Required Environment

At minimum:
- `PORT` (default: `6274`)
- `RAPHAEL_DB_PATH` (default in container: `/data/raphael.db`)

### Auth (Recommended For Any Public Deployment)

Enable auth:
- `RAPHAEL_AUTH_ENABLED=true`

For public deployments, set:
- `BETTER_AUTH_SECRET` (32+ chars)
- `BETTER_AUTH_BASE_URL` (the externally reachable base URL, e.g. `https://raphael.example.com`)
- `RAPHAEL_AUTH_TRUSTED_ORIGINS` (comma-separated origins allowed to initiate auth, typically the same as the base URL)

If you enable email/password login:
- `RAPHAEL_AUTH_EMAIL_PASSWORD_ENABLED=true`
- `RAPHAEL_ADMIN_EMAIL` and `RAPHAEL_ADMIN_PASSWORD` for seeding/updating the admin password

If you are using OAuth providers, configure the provider env vars and ensure their callback URLs match `BETTER_AUTH_BASE_URL`.

### OAuth Allowlist (Optional, OAuth-Only Mode)

If auth is enabled and email/password is disabled (`oauth_only` mode), admins can configure:
- allowed email domains and/or explicit emails
- default drop permissions for newly created OAuth member users

This is managed in the UI under `Settings -> Auth` or via:
- `GET /api/admin/auth-policy`
- `PUT /api/admin/auth-policy`

## Reverse Proxy (TLS)

Raphael can be run behind a reverse proxy for TLS termination and basic request hygiene.

Recommended proxy hardening:
- TLS (Let’s Encrypt)
- reasonable request body limits (OTLP payloads can be large)
- rate limiting (if exposed to the internet)

If you already have an ingress/proxy, point it at `raphael:6274`.

## Container Hardening Details

The default `docker-compose.yml` applies:
- `read_only: true` (root filesystem is read-only)
- `tmpfs` for `/tmp` with `noexec,nosuid`
- `cap_drop: [ALL]`
- `security_opt: no-new-privileges:true`
- `init: true` (reaps zombies)
- `pids_limit`

The runtime image is distroless (Debian), which removes:
- interactive shell
- package managers
- common utilities used for post-exploitation

### Persistent Storage

Only `/data` is writable. The DB lives at:
- `RAPHAEL_DB_PATH=/data/raphael.db`

If you change `RAPHAEL_DB_PATH`, keep it under `/data` unless you also update the compose volume mounts.

## Operational Checklist

1. Keep the base image fresh.
- Rebuild regularly to pull security updates (`docker compose build --pull`).

2. Keep dependencies fresh.
- Prefer automated dependency PRs (Dependabot/Renovate).

3. Monitor auth configuration.
- Ensure `BETTER_AUTH_BASE_URL` is correct.
- Keep `RAPHAEL_AUTH_TRUSTED_ORIGINS` tight.

4. Reduce exposure.
- Put Raphael behind a proxy.
- Consider IP allowlisting for internal-only deployments.

5. Strong isolation (Optional).
- Run under gVisor/Kata if your platform supports it for tighter syscall isolation.
